---
layout: post
title: What Cameras i use and why
published: true
---
I've done a lot of photography in my teens, mostly animal photography. But i stopped around 2020-2021.
Recently though ive found a big interest again in picking up photography again as a way to distract myself and keep myself busy with something i enjoy.

## Do you even need cameras though?
No you don't, the aspect for me that makes photography special is the moment you capture, the play with subjects, light and so on.
Our phones these days have thanks to very good sensors and software gotten to the point where from a technical standpoint the pictures they produce are extremely good, but i still do not photograph with my phone at all, i'll say why next but know i really don't mind Smartphone photography and i think its a great medium.
But why don't i use my phone then? 

Theres two reasons, the first is technical: a actual camera has a way bigger sensor then a phone and also a actual lens, something which a phone needs to compensate by software or multiple sensors/lenses. The bigger sensor allows to capture a lot more light and as a result a lot more details then a phone.
But for me the more important reason is the factor of having a camera in my hand, this is purely emotional but having a real camera in your hand which weights something and has controls and a big optical zoom ring is just a different experience, i simply love having the physical controls, the finder and so on. Its just a very different experiences.

## What cameras do i use?
I'll go into the details here of which cameras i use, when and why.

### Fujifilm X100V
This is a mirrorless APS-C compact camera with a built in lens which is a prime 23mm f2 lense. This camera has a few factors though which make it very special.
For one it has a very retro design reminding of older film cameras which where not DSLR's, but thats just a skin. The X100V is full of modern tech and systems.
The second reason is that it has film simulations for actual old film roles which allow the camera to create very unqiue looks out of the camera without needing post processing RAW files.

The fact its a prime lens might sound like a disadvantage but its not, it fuels creativity by forcing you to think more about positioning and framing. Which a zoom lens lets you cheat out of to some degree.

The camera also has physical controls for all settings(shutter speed, aperture, iso, white balance...), now the way they are designed can require you to stop using the finder(if you are) but gives a great feeling of control, i mostly shoot entirely manually on this camera, since its mirrorless it allows to preview the actual view of the sensor on the screens.
I save JPEGS and RAWS but almost never use the RAWS since the JPEGS are pretty amazing out of camera.

Its a great camera to have with you all the time(i often just put it in the jacket pocket and have it ready fast that way) since its super compact but still produces stunning pictures and it handles ISO noise very very well.
I should add that this camera has had a surge in popularity through social media but i only learned later of that. I bought it after seeing a review of it which also introduced me to it in early 2022.

### Nikon D750
In tech years this camera is ancient, the Nikom d750 was released in *2014*, i got mine around 2019. It was a gift from my mum, back then it was still state of the art intro for professional photographers.
The d750 is a full frame DSLR which already reveals the biggest point of it, the fact it has a full frame sensor means it can capture a lot of details. The autofocus is also lighting fast, nothing your phone can compete with.
Since this is a camera targeting advanced enthusiats and entry professionals it obviously needs lenses and in the DSLR world the lense is more important then the body.
I have 3 lenses for the D750:
* **Nikkor 70-200mm f2.8**: This lense is a zoom lense, i bought it with the camera back in 2019 since i was mostly doing animal photography back then, its a massive lense, nothing you can casually carry on a day trip, but the f2.8 means its able to capture a lot of light and creates a stunning bokeh, it also has a optical stabilizer. Nikon does not sell this lense for DSLR's anymore, only for their mirror less mount.
* **Nikkor 24-70mm f2.8**: This is a pretty good alrounder, i bought it at the start of 2024 refurbished. Its still big but a lot smaller then the 70-200 and its focal length range allows for wide angle into start of zoom lense which makes it useful in most cases. The autofocus is a bit slower then the 70-200 but still absolutely fine.
* **Nikkor 50mm f1.8: This is a prime lense i got from my mom, its technically designed for film cameras but the d750 can electroncically control the focus and aperture(but this requires to close it to the max on the lens itself), 1.8 is very very light sensitive and this lens also has a pretty cool bokeh.**

I exclusively shoot raw with the d750 and mostly in aperture automatic(A).
Even though this camera is old its a lot of fun to work with since you really have something big in your hands, albeit of course that means its not a camera you just take out of funs since it won't fit in your pocket(especially if having a big lense on).
And the autofocus is mostly faster then the X100V.